On Column Writing

Whenever I write a column, I give my email address to enable readers to express their views on the article. I also add a sentence reminding them that their emails should be regarding the column only. However, I do get plenty of emails about things other than the column. Some emails appreciate the contents of the column, but some of them are sarcastic.
The column ‘Last Word’, which I have been writing for a while, is my personal opinion and is naturally highly subjective. As far as possible, I try to convey to the readers what is on my mind. It is very easy to narrate the horrors of dowry death, the causes of corruption or moralize on the virtue of honesty and so on. Anyone can preach, for that matter. But most of the readers ask me to narrate something personal that happened to me or to someone in my circle of friends. As a teacher, I am always aware that analogies and examples make the subject clearer. So, when I write I narrate some of my experiences. The incidents might have happened in my own family or among my friends. But it is not to highlight what my son said or how my friend spoke. I write only to share those few everyday moments, something that my readers can identify with. But I have come across many readers who misunderstand this and waste their time sending some critical and hurtful emails.
I got a letter after I wrote ‘Not all’s wrong with the next generation’. I was describing a conversation with my son. The purpose of the article was not to glorify either my son or myself. It was a conversation between two generations, my son representing the next generation and I, my own generation. I could have written the conversation more impersonally as one which took place between
 
Mister A and Mrs B or just as an objective essay making generalizations on the generation gap. But I felt it was better to write about something that had really happened. However, the response I got for this was the accusation, ‘You write about your son.’
Once, I wrote about social insensitivity. My aim was to tell others how much we are insulated in our own world, with no time at all to know or care about what is happening around us. We must definitely care for our families and I don’t deny that. Family is important and one should not become a philanthropist at the cost of one’s family. My concern was that we should at least think of other people. I did not mean it was necessary to offer financial help or give money. I gave a small example from my experience. But some readers were critical about my narrating a story and praising Buddha. Lord Buddha, in my article, symbolized the ultimate sacrifice of a sensitive person who went on to help others. Everyone cannot be Buddha, but at least we can think and learn from such great people.
When my articles end on a positive note, they are popular with readers. But the moment an article ends on a negative note, I get letters saying, ‘We never expected such a thing from you,’ or ‘You should always write good things.’ In real life, no human being has all good qualities, no human being has been successful in every aspect of life, no system is without its negatives. In reality, life is a mixture of plus and minus, joy and sorrow, ups and downs. It is the duty of a writer to portray that the negative is also a part of life and that we should accept it as such while also thinking positively.
The same incident can be viewed from two different angles by two different people. In my column, I try my level best to show my sincere feeling towards issues of common concern. My aim is not to show off or describe anything personal. I just want to narrate an incident and let readers think about it in relation to their own lives. Unbiased inputs from the readers help me to think and improve myself in my personal column.
Neither the money I earn from writing nor the desire for fame makes me write. I just have the urge to share my vast experience of meeting people, trying to understand them and realizing what life is all about. Many times, people act impulsively due to emotions like greed or jealousy. That doesn’t mean they are bad. These are also the qualities of a human being. That’s why I believe that readers are the source of my inspiration.
